# Explication, Free-Will, and Symbols & Signs

To explicate explication, explication is the formulation of a concept in explicit terms. For example, we have an intuition of free-will, but this intuition does not include a list of propositions that act as its criteria. Explication makes explicit these propositions. Explication is useful for ensuring a consistent use of the concept in question. Explication is important for philosophers because they are trying to understand more deeply the concepts that are intuitive to us.

There are two criticisms of explication, first is that philosophers don't have explicit formulations of the concepts they try to explain, and second that philosophers presuppose their conclusions in their explications. These are complementary criticisms since the former targets under-explication and the ladder over-explication. When concepts are under-explicated, the philosopher cannot ensure the consistency of their concepts, but when a concept is over-explicated, the philosopher might presuppose their conclusions into their explications.

For example, a philosopher who does not believe in free-will might explicate free-will as the ability to have done otherwise, and then fairly conclude that we have no free-will since we are always determined by some set of causes. While another might suppose that free-will is a self-reflective control function, and then fairly conclude that we have free will since our brain has self-reflective control. While someone else who does not explicate free-will has no constraints when deciding its existence, and therefore their decision either way may seem arbitrary.

A mistake would be to disregard free-will as a meaningless concept. Free-will is just an example here, however, most concepts have the property that their explication leads to complication like the ones above. Love, life, art, and nature are examples. There is no reason to believe that the inexplicit nature of free-will entails that it is meaningless. It is mistake to believe that things that are meaningful must be explicable. A similar mistake would be to stop trying to explicate. Whether or not we could have done otherwise is an interesting problem whether or not us being able to do otherwise is a proper explication of free-will.

Our expectation that meaningful concepts must be explicable may come from our preoccupation with mathematics and logic. Cognitive statement such as propositions are evaluative because they have been constructed. The number who for example is the result of cognitive statement. The number two is just the propositions that are the criteria for the number two. Something like free-will is of a different kind, that is better considered as something akin to symbol. A symbol, unlike a sign, has multiple meanings which are shifting with context.

The role of philosophy is to dissect these meanings and explicate them so they are analyzable. However, a mistake occurs when we believe that the sign, the explication, is the same as the symbol, the intuition. The explication has an important relationship to the intuition and it can greatly increase our understanding of it, but it is not the same as the intuition.

Free-will is not the possibility of doing otherwise nor is it self-reflective control functions. Also, free-will is the possibility of doing otherwise or it is self-reflective control functions. In this case, understanding the possibility of doing otherwise or self-reflective control functions is useful in understanding free-will. 
