## Becoming Confused

The world initially appears comprehensible. There is an effortless existence to the world. When I go for a hike, I put one foot in front of the other. Rocks and plants pass through my field of view. I pick up a pinecone from the ground. I stop to hear the wind through an oak tree. I feel the sun on my face. Everything is immediate, tangible and coherent, undeniable, yet the moment I desire to understand this world it stops seaming so immediate and undeniable. I might ask myself, what is nature, and I find that I have entered a new nebulous landscape. The world that once was undeniable becomes  This is the process of becoming confused.

The realm of confusion is not a bad place. If one never enters the world of confusion, they may be stuck in the world of naivety. Naivety itself is also not bad, perhaps more in touch with raw existence, but lacking a reflection of its own nature and therefore can become stuck. If instead one begins to explicate, explain and interpret the world but then excepts a particular set of facts as truth, they can become stuck in the world of ignorance. Ignorance is not necessarily bad. There is a practicality to this certainty that can give one an edge in the game of life. However, ignorance will eventually will lead to an individuals own destructure as the world around them moves out of phase with their beliefs. Confusion therefore is a necessary step to progress, not being stuck in naivety or ignorance.

There are three steps to becoming confused. The first step is to desire to know how the world works. This desire can manifest as curiosity, a lust for power, a neurotic compulsion, or gentle beckoning. This urge turns you into a collector of explanations. The more you can explain the more you need to explain. Indeed, this knowledge gives you power to manipulate or engineer the world, however, one might become dissatisfied with the endless regress of explanation. At a point you may get the nagging feeling that knowing how the world works is not the same as knowing what the world is.

The second step of becoming confused, is a desire to know what to do. We may not be able to explain everything, but we need to know how to act. So, we search for reasons for our actions and try to find rules for how to act and when. Soon, however, you realize that the right way to act depends on what you think the world is. The right way to act depends of the purpose of out existence and what is valuable, and 
